---
title: Edgar Rice Burroughs
date: 2014-05-05 05:06:07
template: post.jade
tags:
  - American
categories:
  - Books
---

The old man looked at me for a long time before he spoke.  There was a puzzled expression upon his wrinkled face, and a look of hurt sorrow in his eyes.

<!--more-->

"David, my boy," he said, "how could you for a moment doubt my love for you?  There is something strange here that I cannot understand.  I know that I am not mad, and I am equally sure that you are not; but how in the world are we to account for the strange hallucinations that each of us seems to harbor relative to the passage of time since last we saw each other.  You are positive that months have gone by, while to me it seems equally certain that not more than an hour ago I sat beside you in the amphitheater.  Can it be that both of us are right and at the same time both are wrong?  First tell me what time is, and then maybe I can solve our problem.  Do you catch my meaning?"

I didn't and said so.

"Yes," continued the old man, "we are both right.  To me, bent over my book here, there has been no lapse of time.  I have done little or nothing to waste my energies and so have required neither food nor sleep, but you, on the contrary, have walked and fought and wasted strength and tissue which must needs be rebuilt by nutriment and food, and so, having eaten and slept many times since last you saw me you naturally measure the lapse of time largely by these acts.  As a matter of fact, David, I am rapidly coming to the conviction that there is no such thing as time&mdash;surely there can be no time here within Pellucidar, where there are no means for measuring or recording time.  Why, the Mahars themselves take no account of such a thing as time.  I find here in all their literary works but a single tense, the present.  There seems to be neither past nor future with them.  Of course it is impossible for our outer-earthly minds to grasp such a condition, but our recent experiences seem to demonstrate its existence."

It was too big a subject for me, and I said so, but Perry seemed to enjoy nothing better than speculating upon it, and after listening with interest to my account of the adventures through which I had passed he returned once more to the subject, which he was enlarging upon with considerable fluency when he was interrupted by the entrance of a Sagoth.