---
title: Jack London
date: 2014-04-04 04:05:06
template: post.jade
tags:
  - American
categories:
  - Books
---

"I was alone in my big house. As I have told you often before, in those  days we could talk with one another over wires or through the air. The  telephone bell rang, and I found my brother talking to me. He told me  that he was not coming home for fear of catching the plague from me, and  that he had taken our two sisters to stop at Professor Bacon's home. He  advised me to remain where I was, and wait to find out whether or not I  had caught the plague.

<!--more-->

"To all of this I agreed, staying in my house and for the first time in  my life attempting to cook. And the plague did not come out on me. By  means of the telephone I could talk with whomsoever I pleased and get  the news. Also, there were the newspapers, and I ordered all of them to  be thrown up to my door so that I could know what was happening with the  rest of the world.

"New York City and Chicago were in chaos. And what happened with them  was happening in all the large cities. A third of the New York police  were dead. Their chief was also dead, likewise the mayor. All law and  order had ceased. The bodies were lying in the streets un-buried. All  railroads and vessels carrying food and such things into the great  city had ceased runnings and mobs of the hungry poor were pillaging  the stores and warehouses. Murder and robbery and drunkenness were  everywhere. Already the people had fled from the city by millions&mdash;at  first the rich, in their private motor-cars and dirigibles, and then the  great mass of the population, on foot, carrying the plague with them,  themselves starving and pillaging the farmers and all the towns and  villages on the way.

"The man who sent this news, the wireless operator, was alone with his  instrument on the top of a lofty building. The people remaining in the  city&mdash;he estimated them at several hundred thousand&mdash;had gone mad from  fear and drink, and on all sides of him great fires were raging. He was  a hero, that man who staid by his post&mdash;an obscure newspaperman, most  likely.

"For twenty-four hours, he said, no transatlantic airships had arrived,  and no more messages were coming from England. He did state, though,  that a message from Berlin&mdash;that's in Germany&mdash;announced that Hoffmeyer,  a bacteriologist of the Metchnikoff School, had discovered the serum for  the plague. That was the last word, to this day, that we of America  ever received from Europe. If Hoffmeyer discovered the serum, it was too  late, or otherwise, long ere this, explorers from Europe would have  come looking for us. We can only conclude that what happened in America  happened in Europe, and that, at the best, some several score may have  survived the Scarlet Death on that whole continent.